Jell-O Marshmallow Fondant
By Penolopy Bulnick in CookingDessert
Introduction: Jell-O Marshmallow Fondant
Marshmallow fondant is already awesome, but if you add jello to it, you can make it even more
delicious while coloring it at the same time! Jello seems to mix in really well with the powdered sugar
and gives good results for taste and look. Get ready to be wowed by how easy it is to make rainbow
marshmallow fondants by using jello!
Supplies
Ingredients:
1. 8 oz Marshmallows
2. 1 lb Powdered Sugar*
3. 3 oz Box of Jello Mix flavor of choice
4. 2 tbs Water (I never measure this but it is about this much)
Helpful Supplies:
1. Silpat Mat (This is the best thing to have when working with marshmallow fondant! So easy to
clean it off!)
2. Mixing Bowls
3. Microwave
I made only 2oz at a time and then multiplied it for a whole bag of marshmallows, but if you are
wondering, here is what I did for each of the colors shown:
1. 2 oz Marshmallows
2. 1/4 lb Powdered Sugar
3. 4 tsp. Jello Mix
4. Little bit of water
*I actually don't measure powdered sugar. I figure it is always going to take what it takes.
Step 1: Initial Mixing
We are going to start off like normal, but instead of just mixing marshmallows and water, we are going
to add in our jello mix. If the jello has bigger grains, you might want to run it through a food processor.
You want this as fine as powdered sugar so it mixes in well. Otherwise, it might come out too grainy.
I melt the mix for 50 seconds on half power, take out and stir, melt for 45 seconds on half power, and
mix one more time. If it still isn't melted, throw it in a little longer, but keep an eye on it. It'll puff up!
Step 2: Bring on the Sugar!
Mix in your sugar! Like I said, I don't measure. I sift in a handful at a time. Mix it in the bowl first until
it starts to form a ball. If you leave it along for half a minute and it melts down into the bottom of the
bowl, it's not ready. Once it is mostly solid, pour it out onto your surface (a silpat mat is perfect for
this) that has powdered sugar on it. Carefully knead it while incorporating as much powdered sugar
as you need.
I keep going until I can pass it between my hands about 20 times without it sticking to me. Wrap it up
and put it away until you are ready to use it.
Step 3: Use and Enjoy
My Cherry came out kind of tough, but I'm not sure if that means I put in too much powdered sugar or
if the Cherry just doesn't work well. The taste is pretty good, not too strong. I don't think it would hurt
to add in a bit more if you want the flavor more prevalent.
I thought they all tasted great, but Berry Blue was my favorite!