5-minute Chocolate Cake
By scoochmaroo in CookingCake
Introduction: 5-minute Chocolate Cake
There are a lot of 5-minute cake-in-a-mug recipes out there, but I've taken the time to experiment with
eight variations on a a recipe to come up with the best, tastiest, and most reliable 5-minute chocolate
cake on the web. This quick and easy chocolate cake recipe will change your life! Now you can have
a rich, chocolate dessert in an instant. So grab a big mug (I link to my favorite in the next step) and
get ready to make new kind of cupcake - the cake in a cup!
Step 1: Supplies
TOOLS:
Mug
Digital Scale
Microwave
INGREDIENTS:
4 tablespoons flour - make sure you measure it right - or the cake is a lie!
4 tablespoons sugar
1 tablespoon unsweetened cocoa
2 tablespoons whisked egg - 1 egg is too much, 1 egg white is too eggy, 1 yolk is too dense, but 2 tblsp is just
right!
3 tablespoons milk
3 tablespoons oil
3 tablespoons chocolate chips
splash vanilla or other flavoring - try peppermint or cinnamon
For a fudgier version, omit egg.
Step 2: Mix Your Ingredients
Add all of the dry ingredients to the mug and mix.
Add the egg and combine well. It gets pretty pasty at the point.
Stir in milk and oil.
Add chocolate chips* and splash of vanilla. Stir well.
*if you don't have chocolate chips, try a broken up candy bar - I can't stress how much this amps the
awesomeness of your cake
Step 3: Nuke It!
Microwave for 3 minutes in a 1000w oven, or 4 minutes in a 700w oven.
It will start to crown over the top of the mug. Don't panic! It will collapse once the heat stops.
Step 4: Experiment!
Some people have had mixed results with the final texture of this cake.
This cake is tricky mostly because of people's microwaves all being different. I experimented a lot with
the amounts of different ingredients.
I think if it's something you're going to make quite a lot in the future, it's worth fussing around with! Try
just a bit less time in the microwave (you can always put it back in for more). If that doesn't help, try a
little less egg, or a little less flour.
Keep notes on what you're trying each time, and eventually you'll find the cake that's perfect for both
you and your microwave!
